 ANALYTIC ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE


Transduction  beyond induction and deduction.

Transduction – the mechanism of individuation. 

A more concrete example of a transductive process is the propagation of a computation in 
self-transforming programs: executed code and the data are analogous to operation and structure. 

However, the program code itself is also accessible as data that is progressively modified to 
produce (in principle) inexhaustible variety and innovation. 

Code redefines the data and data further redefines the code in a chain of operations. 

The analogy helps to understand how operation and structure are reciprocally determining 
expressions of the transductive process.  


FACULTY & ASPECT: we use 3 not 2 however. 

Transduction can be seen as a chain of operations Oi on structures Sj : S1 → O1 → S2 → O2 → S3 →... 

Every operation is a conversion of one structure into another, while every structure mediates 
between one operation and another. 

Each structure in the chain constrains the operations that can immediately follow. 
Each operation, in its turn, can transform the previous structure into a limited number of new structures. 

Every intermediate structure is a partial resolution of incompatibility but it is driven away from its 
relative stability as long as the remaining unresolved tensions are not exhausted. 

Every operation is a conversion of one structure into another, while every structure mediates between one 
operation and another. 
Each structure in the chain constrains the operations that can immediately follow. 

Each operation, in its turn, can transform the previous structure into a limited number of new structures. 

Every intermediate structure is a partial resolution of incompatibility but it is driven away from its 
relative stability as long as the remaining unresolved tensions are not exhausted.

Evolution  expected as a logical and natural extension of boundary drift.
Autopoiesis  virtual network regenerates processes, transformed via interactions.
Interactions  of entropy integration, abstract relations of controlled autopoiesis. 


OPEN-ENDED  emergence of intelligence, or what we call open-ended intelligence. 

The fluid and generative character of open-ended intelligence precedes and complements the well established 
concept of intelligence that we criticize. Without such a complementary approach, it seems that a truly 
General AI is bound to remain beyond the reach of understanding.


OPEN-ENDED INTELLIGENCE is developed as an abstraction of the process of cognitive development so its 
application can be extended to general agents and systems. 

We introduce and discuss three facets of the idea: the philosophical concept of individuation, sense-making. 
We further show how open-ended intelligence can be framed in terms of a distributed, self-organizing network 
of interacting elements (complex adaptive system) and how such a process is scalable. 

204 permutations cluster to arrive at our first isolated super-agent by virtue of the Gödel oracle.

